What happens if your health insurance policy runs out of money
during a treatment
?  If you work in the corporate sector
and the
health insurance coverage provided by your employer is
insufficient to cover any treatment, what will you do
?  This is not a hypothetical situation.
This is happening to many people
because
we have not increased our sum insured at the same speed at which the medical expenses have increased.
And the
easiest way to avoid this situation is to have a super
top up health insurance plan.  In today's
video, I will tell you what a super
top-up health insurance plan
is and how it strengthens your financial security.
How does the Annual Aggregate Deductible feature work in a Super Top-up plan?
How much deductible should you take in your super top-up plan
?  So that
you do not face shortage of sum insured during treatment?  And the most
important question is whether you should take this super top-up plan
from your base health insurance company
or will a
super top-up plan from some other company be better for you and
not only this, on the basis of my experience,
I will also tell you seven very important tips
which you must keep in mind while choosing any super top-up plan.
So
if you want to get extended coverage for your family
through a super top up
plan or you are an insurance agent and
you want to provide a good super top up
plan to your clients then the information given in today's video will be
very useful for you.
So without any delay let's quickly start this video.
Super Top Up Health
Insurance Plan is a great way to
enhance your health insurance coverage at affordable premiums.
Unlike a basic health insurance policy,
it covers your treatment expenses after a deductible limit.
Let us understand how.  Suppose I have a
health insurance plan of ₹5 lakh which
is my base policy and apart from this I have
also taken a super top up plan of ₹20 lakh in
which I have chosen the deductible amount as
₹5 lakh which I
will cover from my base insurance policy.  If tomorrow I need
any treatment and the cost of that treatment
exceeds the sum insured of my base policy i.e.
exceeds Rs 5 lakh,
then I can cover that expense directly through my
Super Top-up plan
because the deductible limit of my Super Top-up plan is
Rs 5 lakh, which
I have already covered through the base policy.  The
most important aspect of this super top-up plan that we
should know is the deductible or let's say
annual aggregate deductible.  Let us
understand through an example
how this deductible will work in a super top up plan.
Suppose I took a super top
up policy for myself.  I took coverage of ₹ lakh
under it.  How much coverage did you take?  ₹
lakh.  Now within this I will
also choose the deductible amount for myself.  At the
time of taking this policy.  Suppose the deductible I chose was
₹5 lakh.
Because I already have its base policy.
If there is any claim within the entire year,
whether it is a single claim or multiple claims, whose
total amount reaches up to ₹ lakh, then
I will have to cover this amount either from my pocket or
from my base policy, which is
my deductible or let's say annual
aggregate deductible amount.  Now,
whether this ₹5 lakh is spent in one claim
or in multiple claims,
this super top up
policy will not cover even ₹1 until this ₹5 lakh expense is spent.
As soon as this annual aggregate
deductible limit is reached, my coverage will start for the next ₹ lakh.
I can claim from this policy.  So this is
how the annual aggregate
deduction will work here.  Now that is why the
name of this plan is Super Topup.  Because this did
not happen in the top-up plan.
Whatever deductible you choose in the top-up plan,
you had to pay it with every claim.  Suppose
any claim comes, this ₹5
lakh deductible will be deducted from it first.  After that you will
get coverage.  Whereas in Super Top Up plan there is the
concept of Annual Aggregate Deductible.  That means the
annual aggregate deductible amount of ₹5 lakh
will be calculated on a
cumulative basis.  That means it can be ₹5 lakh in one claim
or in multiple claims.
As soon as the threshold of ₹5 lakh is completed
, the coverage of your policy, the
coverage of the Super Topup plan will start.  And that is
the basic difference between top-up and
super top-up plans.  So obviously Super
Topup Plan is a better option than Top Up
Plan.  Now after understanding the Annual Aggregate Deductible,
another important question which is
often asked in the comments is
whether this deductible amount, say ₹5
lakh, which we have chosen as Annual Aggregate Deductible,
needs to be paid from a base policy only or
can we pay these expenses from our own pocket as well.
So there is no such compulsion.
If you have a super top up plan.  This ₹5
lakh will not be covered by your plan.  Whether you
pay out of pocket, your base policy
covers you.  It's your wish.  There is
no such condition from the insurance company
that you have to be covered only through the base policy.   It's
your wish.  Wherever you want to cover it from.
But think whether someone would like to pay ₹5 lakh
or for this you would
like to take a policy of ₹15, 20, ₹25,000, then it
depends on you.  If you feel that
you can always keep a cash reserve of the amount of annual aggregate deduction you have chosen in a super top-up plan.
So you can also take super top up plan without
base policy.  You will have to pay this money
from your pocket.  But it is not possible
for most people, especially those in the lower and middle classes,
to always have
₹5 lakh liquid that they can
use whenever they want.  That's why
your base health insurance policy is a
better alternative to cover this annual
aggregate deductible amount.  Now you might also be
thinking that in my example I have
shown you the deductible option of ₹5 lakh.  But
how do you decide what the best deductible amount is for you
?  Now, here many people make a mistake
and the biggest mistake they make is
that they choose their deductible amount
more than the sum insured of their base policy
and in such a scenario,
even after having two health insurance policies,
they have to pay some money from their pocket during any major treatment.  So the
smartest strategy is that
if you choose a deductible equal to the sum insured of your base policy
in your super top up plan, then the
chances of you incurring financial liability during any treatment are very less.
Because the deductible amount will be
covered by your base policy and on top of that, the
super top up plan will be available to you.
If you work in the corporate sector, then
whatever
is the health coverage of your employer, you can choose an annual aggregate deductible of Rs 3 lakh, 4 lakh, 5 lakh while
choosing your super top up
health insurance plan.  And if you don't mind the increase in premium of your
super top of health insurance plan,
you can choose an annual aggregate deductible that is lower than the sum insured of the base policy.  It's
your wish.  But
according to me, the least preferable
option would be to choose a deductible amount higher than the sum insured of your base policy, which would
not be a wise decision
considering your claim in future.  Now
friends, I am going to clear the biggest confusion related to Super Top Up Plan.
In the comments of the video, you often
ask the question that Sir, should I take the Super Top-up plan from the same
company as my base policy
or should I take the
Super Top-up policy from some other company.  So there
is no single answer to this.  This can be a different decision for every person.
But I am going to
tell you the benefits of both these decisions
so that you can take your decision accordingly.  First of all, let us
understand what benefits you will get if you take the Super Trop Up Plan of the same company with the base policy.  The first benefit
is that your claim process will be smooth.
Since both the policies are from the same company, there will be no
communication gap.
All the data related to treatment and diagnosis is with a single company.
So, when your coverage shifts from the base policy
to the super top-up plan, the
chances of any problem are very less.  The second
benefit is that your documentation will be reduced considerably.
Suppose you have taken some treatment under your base policy
and you have taken the super top up plan
from some other company, then you will have to submit all these
documents from one company to another.  There may be
some shortcomings in these
also.  You may also ask for some more details.
So that process
ends with having the same company.  All the
details are with one company.  They can
use them in both the policies whenever they want.  The
third benefit is that you can
also get some extra discount on the premium.
If
you take a super top-up combo with your base policy,
some companies may also offer you an extra discount
which can reduce your overall premium.
So, if you like your existing
health insurance company i.e. the one with the base policy and there is
no problem with the service, then you
can also take a super top-up plan from the same company.  But
before that, you should also understand the benefits of taking a super top up plan from another company.  The
first benefit is diversity
or flexibility.  Now I have
two policies from the same company, so I will be
able to use the strength of the same company.  But
by taking plans from two companies, I get the
opportunity to utilize the strengths of both
and I become more flexible.
Suppose I had to stand on one leg,
it would be very unstable for me,
but since I have two legs, I can
keep myself more balanced.  I can shift my weight from
one foot to the other whenever I want.
So taking both these plans from different insurance companies
makes me more flexible and stable.  The second
benefit is that you
can avoid any restrictions of the company.  Suppose you have
taken both the plans from the same company, base
plan as well as super top up plan.  Now there is a difference
in the way this company works.  If
you do not like the services
or if a big
hospital in your city has been removed from the cashless or network list,
then any bad
decision of one company will affect
both your plans.  So
to avoid such restrictions, you have an
alternative like a super top up
plan from a different insurance company.   The
third benefit is related to premium.  It is
possible that your existing health
insurance company may have a
super top-up plan with limited features and limited coverage
and it may also be expensive. Then,
you can
choose a super top-up plan from another company with better features and at a lower cost.
And this way you have
two options instead of one to
cover your treatment expenses.  Now
you can choose any option from these two options.
You are just
one question away from deciding
what is your priority?  Only after answering this question, you can
decide whether you should
take a super top-up plan from the same company or a different company.
Now friends, here comes the final and substantive
section of the video. Based on my experience, I am going to
give you seven such tips,
ignoring which can prove to be very costly for you
if you are taking a super top-up plan.
So the first advice is
regarding the coverage amount and the deductible amount.
Now see, you will claim from the health insurance policy whenever you want.
Any problem will come
when it comes, but for now,
what do you get by paying money today?  You get peace
of mind.  That is, you should decide how much sum insured and
how much deductible amount will give you coverage as well as
peace of mind.
Because the sum insured will be used at the time of claim.
You will also choose the deductible amount wisely.
But still, if it remains in your mind
that this coverage is not less.  Then
you will have to look for another plan and then
things can become quite complicated for you.
So, carefully choose your sum insured and
deductible amount which you
think is sufficient.  Second
advice is that you
must check the list of network hospitals near you.  Just imagine,
we go to a hospital in an emergency and find out
that this hospital is not in the cashless list.  The
network is not listed.  However,
you may get claim reimbursement.
But a big benefit of insurance is
that you do not have to pay any advance money.
You will miss that benefit.
So you must have a list of
cashless hospitals from your health insurance company
and at least a list of blacklisted hospitals in
your city.  The
third advice is regarding the waiting period of PED.
Now if anyone wants to take a super top-up plan, then
he wants to take it keeping in mind some specific
coverage or some big claim in future
and if someone already has a
pre-existing disease and there is a
waiting period of two or three years, you
can also reduce it.  If you feel
that a claim related to this may arise in the near future
or you need coverage, then
cover it by paying extra money.   It should
not happen that even after taking the policy, the
waiting period creates problems in your claim.  The
fourth advice is
regarding the co-payment clause.  Now, since
in a super top-up plan you will already meet the
threshold of annual aggregate deductible, this
means that the policy will
not cover that amount.  Apart from this, if there is
co-payment in your super top up plan then it can be
very heavy on your pocket.  So
having a copayment in a super top up plan
can increase your deductions.  The next
advice is to check your inclusions and
exclusions.  Super Top Up plan
gives you coverage over and above your base policy.  This
means it will be a big treatment.  So,
major treatments like any modern
treatment, organ transplant, etc. have
higher chances of complications or may involve huge expenses.
This type of coverage should be included in your super top
up plan.  So for this,
read the list of inclusions and exclusions of the policy very carefully.  The sixth
advice I would like to give you is that you must check the brand of your health
insurance company, its quality, claim
settlement track record and such
data because
your product is fine but if you do not get support from the shop from where you
bought it, if there is
some problem in its working, then no matter
how good the
quality of the product is, if you do
not get support when needed, then the money
you have paid for the premium gets wasted
and my final and seventh tip is that
due to comparison of premium and benefits, do not directly buy the cheapest super top-up plan.
You can see which plan of which company
you are getting with which features and for how much rupees.  That means you have to
compare the worth of your super top-up plan.
Value for money has to be compared.   Do
not buy a policy directly because it is cheap.
Now friends, the final question comes that
from where should you get this super top-up plan
?  First of all, for price comparison or
features comparison, you can
visit the online brokers platform.
You
can easily compare and choose different options on online websites.
Once all the
features, pricing and other benefits of the Super Top-up policy are
compared, then you can buy the policy from wherever
you like, that is, if you feel that
I can get the service from here or if I need it tomorrow,
I can get claim support, then
you can buy the policy from online brokers,
platforms, advisors, agents etc.
But keep in
mind that too many sources can
confuse you.  But do
not ignore the voice within you i.e. the voice of your heart.
Buy your policy from a place where you feel confident and have good support at the time of claim.  Even if it costs Rs. 100, 200, 400, 500,
it will not make much difference
because
if someone stands up to help us in any claim or any problem situation,
we cannot compare it with money.
One more thing to keep in mind is that
if you are taking a super top-up plan, then keep your base
policy strong.  It is not like that if you have
taken a super top up plan then any base policy of Rs
2, 4, 5 lakh will be valid
because your maximum claim which can come at any time and will be of a
small amount,
you will have to pay it from the base policy only.
You have kept a Super Top Up Plan for extra safety in case of
emergency or for your financial stability, so
if any family member
needs major treatment then you have a
choice to use this Super Top Up Plan.  So
friends, in today's video did you understand
what a super top-up plan is?  How does it work
?  Choose the deductible amount and you should
take a super top up plan from the same company or a different company.  I hope the
video has cleared most of your doubts.
But still, if you have any
question or any point which could
not be discussed here, then you
can write it in the comment section.  I will
definitely answer that.  If you liked the information given in the video, then
you can like the video to show your love and support.
Please share this information wherever necessary and if you want to receive similar
informative, transparent and unbiased
videos in the future,
then do subscribe to the Insurance Impact channel.
Modern treatments can play a
significant role in the treatment of a policy holder
and these treatments are
also very expensive.  In this video, I have given information about
which modern treatments are covered in your health insurance policy
and for which treatment they are
used.
You must watch this video.
I, Harvinder Singh, now
take your permission.  I will meet you in the next video.  Till then take
care of yourself,
stay happy and stay healthy.  Jai Hind.